To understand the most important characteristics of a society, one must study its major cities.

Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how these considerations shape your position.

mostly agree
1. cities are the center of culture. Look at berlin during the cold war. Look at Columbus, Cincinnati, etc. People flock to cities
2. what's important? how the people act with each other. 

disagree
1. rural communities are also critical -- look at aboriginal society, where the art is created alone and under the influence.

Cities have been a source of major criticism and praise ever since they were first realized. Simultaneously leading to the death of hunter/gatherer society and creating a hub for art, trade and science, cities are a fundamental piece of human society. In order to understand the most important parts of most (but not all) societies, cities should be at the center of one's study for two major reasons.

To begin, one must understand that society is just the grouping of common characteristics of a group of people united by location, heritage, race, or other trait. Just as there is modern society (united by time in history), there is an American society or a neighbourhood society (united by location). But what are the most important characteristics? Those that define the interactions between a society's inhabitants. For example, a crucial (and perhaps obvious) part of German society is speaking German in day-to-day life. But the characteristics that shape personal actions are not important. This supports the idea that cities are critical to study, because there are so many more inter-personal interactions in cities than in less densely populated areas.

Next, because so many people are grouped within a city, culture and society develop at a faster rate than in rural areas, and actually influences the surrounding areas. Studying the source of change in a society is the best way to understand the important characteristics. Consider Berlin during the Cold Way, when the Berlin Wall separated the capital of Germany into two pieces. East Berlin had nowhere to spread, because it was geographically limited by the surrounding Communist government. Because of that, the art and culture within East Berlin changed and mutated faster than West Berlin. After the wall fell, Eastern culture spread into Western culture, but not the other way. If you wanted to understand German society after the Cold Way, studying the source of the change (Berlin from 1953 to 1989) would divulge the best understanding. Densely populated areas like cities offer the best understanding of change in a society, and thus the important characteristics in a society.

But not all societies are city-based. Although the majority are, some societies defy the norm and are based around traveling or individualism. As an example, the native Aborigines of Australia are not traditionally a city-based society. Rather, they aim to become more in tune with nature and the old gods by spending many days alone in the "bush" of Australia. There are no Aboriginal cities to study; if one wanted to best understand Aboriginal society, studying their cities would prove very difficult. Thus, not all societies can be understood through cities, sometimes because of cultural values that prevent cities from even forming.

Understanding the most important characteristics of a society is a difficult question, without a "one size fits all" answer. Some societies' values precent cities from forming, or strongly discourage it. However, for the majority of modern societies, cities are a critical part of the cultural development and are therefore critical to study. 