Educational institutions have a responsibility to dissuade students from pursuing fields of study in which they are unlikely to succeed.

Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim. In developing and supporting your position, be sure to address the most compelling reasons and/or examples that could be used to challenge your position.

When my father went to university, in his freshman engineering class, he was told to look left, and look right. Of the three students, only one would graduate. The university let everyone who wanted to be an engineer take the classes, but the classes were not for everyone. Nowadays, universities try to help students find career paths that will lead to great success, rather than let them flunk out in their first year. But which approach is better for society as a whole? In most cases, universities should strive to let students decide what field of study ignites passion for them, and stay out of the way as much as possible. 

Universities are often the first educational institution in the United States where students have the opportunity to decide their direction in education. There are no nation-wide requirements to meet. Because of this freedom, universities should support all students' decisions for field of study. Imagine if Bill Gates (Microsoft), Steve Wozniak (Apple) or Larry Page (Google) had not been allowed to pursue computer science as a topic of study because it was seen as a particularly difficult courseload? And these are just the largest tech companies. Consider the negative impact on society if the same types of individuals in physics, mathematics, economics or other sciences had not pursued their passions. Because university is the first time students have this freedom, it is important for society that these educational institutions support these decisions to the fullest.

Furthermore, the freedom of choice in a university courseload often gives students a chance to take courses previously seen as irrelevant or useless. This freedom to mix ideas from different fields of study is highly valuable: Harvard Business Review often recommends mixing up business teams because the cross-pollination of experts in different fields produces valuabe conepts that otherwise would remain hidden away. If a university were to prevent a chemistry student from taking a philosophy class, or a philosopy student from taking a chemistry class, society would again miss out on ideas inspired by a mixing of domains. It is therefore critical that universities support students in taking classes that might not directly lead to a career improvement or success.

However, as the prevalance of university degrees increases, the value of such a degree decreases. Some universities have transitioned from instituions of higher learning into institutions of career preparation. Such institutions must recognize this shift in themselves and update their stance on dissauding students from pursuing degrees in highly theoretical or difficult fields. Trade schools, for instance, are not institutions of higher learning. They are a place to learn a complex skill that has value in today's society. Students looking for a marketable skill would be happy to accept guidance in picking a career path best suited for them. These marketable skills are in demand by society; that's why they're marketable. Guiding students towards high-demand trades thus improves society, and is the exception to the stance above.

Education after high school in the United States is not one size fits all. There are different kinds of students with different kinds of goals, and this problem cannot be simplified into one answer. However, in the majority of cases, supporting students in the fields they are passionate about is the right decision for society.
